---
title: "Configuring Scripts (Pre-Canned Responses)"
permalink: /Configuring-Scripts/
layout: single
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
sidebar: 
  nav: "docs"
---

Scripts (Pre-Canned Responses), allow a privileged user to create one or
more globally available sets of pre-canned or pre-defined responses for
an agent to use in responding to an SMS, WhatsApp, Chat or E-Mail
contact as well as allow users to specify their own individual
(Private), customized, responses.

Creating the responses can be done under Settings \> Scripts. Upon
loading this page, you will be presented with a screen like the one
depicted below and may create a new script, edit an existing script or
delete an existing script:

![Graphical user interface, text, application, email Description
automatically
generated](./Configuring-Scripts/media/image1.png)

To create a new script, click the +New button. You will be prompted to
specify a name, the content of the script (text), queues to apply to,
channels to apply to, as well as the scope (Globally available or
Private to the user creating the script).

![Graphical user interface, application Description automatically
generated](./Configuring-Scripts/media/image2.png)

Once set, it's immediately available for users to use, and can be found
in the Engage page when on an active Contact (SMS, WhatsApp, Chat or
e-Mail).

Within the active contact, the plus sign can be clicked which will bring
up a list of scripts to choose from:

![Graphical user interface, text, application, email Description
automatically
generated](./Configuring-Scripts/media/image3.png)

Once selected the script text will be placed in the text field, but not
submitted, which allows the user to edit the response, potentially
customizing it to the customer's specific scenario, before pressing
send:

![Graphical user interface, text, application Description automatically
generated](./Configuring-Scripts/media/image4.png)

That concludes the creation of scripts and the use of scripts within the
Engage page.
